## An exosome mRNA-related gene risk model to evaluate the tumor microenvironment and predict prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma.
 19.11.2024, _Z Du, X Han, L Zhu, L Li, L Castellano, J Stebbing, L Peng, Z Wang_


_Humans, Carcinoma, Hepatocellular, Exosomes, RNA, Messenger, Tumor Microenvironment, Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases, Liver Neoplasms, Prognosis, Risk Factors, Microfilament Proteins, Vesicular Transport Proteins_
The interplay between exosomes and the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains unclear. We investigated the influence of exosomes on the TME in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), focusing on their mRNA expression profile.

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-03784-6)

10.1186/s12920-024-01865-z

---

## https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-03784-6

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-03784-6)

---

## DeCGR: an interactive toolkit for deciphering complex genomic rearrangements from Hi-C data.
 29.11.2024, _J Li, M Sun, Y Ye, L Gao_


_Software, Humans, Genomics, Gene Rearrangement, Chromatin, User-Computer Interface_
Complex genomic rearrangements (CGRs) drive the restructuring of chromatin architecture, resulting in significant interactions among rearranged fragments, visible as anomalous interaction blocks in chromatin contact maps generated by chromosome conformation capture technologies such as Hi-C. These blocks not only offer the orientation and genome coordinates of rearranged fragments but also filter out false positive CGRs, thereby facilitating CGR assembly. Despite this, there is a lack of interactive graphical software tailored for this purpose.

[Source](https://cassyni.com/s/mvif-34)

10.1186/s12864-024-11085-5

---

## https://cassyni.com/s/mvif-34

[Source](https://cassyni.com/s/mvif-34)

---

## Microbiome Virtual International Forum (@microbiomevif.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:dyrbb3iiuynmhsho3hywdakx?ref_src=embed)

---

## Clinical Impact of Specific Extraocular Muscle Manipulation and the Oculocardiac Reflex on Postoperative Vomiting in Pediatric Strabismus Surgery: A Multicenter, Observational Study.
 30.11.2024, _T Kojima, Y Yamauchi, T Fujiwara, S Obara, A Sueda, R Takahashi, S Yasuda, H Kitoh_


Strabismus surgery, which is commonly performed in children, poses a high risk of postoperative vomiting. The current anesthesia guidelines for the prevention of postoperative vomiting in children are based on heterogeneous populations involving different types of surgery, and risk factors for postoperative vomiting in, specifically, the pediatric strabismus surgery population are unclear. Moreover, the effects of manipulating the deeply attached extraocular muscles and the oculocardiac reflex on this risk remain inconclusive.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:dyrbb3iiuynmhsho3hywdakx/post/3lbelftyhn22t?ref_src=embed)

10.1111/pan.15047

---

## 2024-11-20T08:57:41.034Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:dyrbb3iiuynmhsho3hywdakx/post/3lbelftyhn22t?ref_src=embed)

---

## Citizen science as an instrument for women’s health research

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-024-03371-2)

---

## Engineering microbial consortia for controllable outputs.
 02.12.2018, _SR Lindemann, HC Bernstein, HS Song, JK Fredrickson, MW Fields, W Shou, DR Johnson, AS Beliaev_


_Bioengineering, Genomics, Microbial Consortia_
Much research has been invested into engineering microorganisms to perform desired biotransformations; nonetheless, these efforts frequently fall short of expected results due to the unforeseen effects of biofeedback regulation and functional incompatibility. In nature, metabolic function is compartmentalized into diverse organisms assembled into robust consortia, in which the division of labor is thought to lead to increased community efficiency and productivity. Here we consider whether and how consortia can be designed to perform bioprocesses of interest beyond the metabolic flexibility limitations of a single organism. Advances in post-genomic analysis of microbial consortia and application of high-resolution global measurements now offer the promise of systems-level understanding of how microbial consortia adapt to changes in environmental variables and inputs of carbon and energy. We argue that, when combined with appropriate modeling frameworks, systems-level knowledge can markedly improve our ability to predict the fate and functioning of consortia. Here we articulate our collective perspective on the current and future state of microbial community engineering and control while placing specific emphasis on ecological principles that promote control over community function and emergent properties.

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-024-01850-3)

10.1038/ismej.2016.26

---

## Perspective: A framework for understanding collective microbiome metabolism

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-024-01850-3)

---

## http://www.nature.com/articles/s41&amp;#8230

[Source](http://www.nature.com/articles/s41&#8230)

---

## Influence of rubber particle inputs on nitrogen removal efficiency of bioretention systems.
 29.11.2024, _T Hu, W Li, J Xiong, J Zhou, Q Xia_


_Nitrogen, Rubber, Water Pollutants, Chemical, Waste Disposal, Fluid, Denitrification, Bacteria, Ethylenes, Elastomers_
Bioretention systems effectively capture rubber particles and other microplastics in stormwater runoff. However, it is uncertain whether long-term particle accumulation affects pollutant removal efficacy. This study investigated the impact of various concentrations of ethylene-propylene-diene-monomer (EPDM) particles (0, 50, 100, and 400 mg/L) on bioretention system nitrogen removal performance. The input of EPDM during short-duration (2 h) rainfall favored the removal of nitrogen, and the total nitrogen effluent concentration of the bioretention system with EPDM was reduced by 0.59-1.52 mg/L compared with that of the system without EPDM. In addition, the input of EPDM reduced the negative effects of drought. During long-duration (24 h) rainfall, higher concentrations of EPDM led to lower nitrate-nitrogen concentrations in the effluent. The bioretention system with EPDM required less time for nitrate-nitrogen removal to reach 50% than that without EPDM input. Microbial community analysis showed that EPDM increased the relative total abundance of denitrifying bacteria (such as Dechloromonas, Zoogloea, Ramlibacter, and Aeromonas) by 7.25-10.26%, which improved the denitrification capacity of the system.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:5r53rhz7nxiurzw4mfcmfewf?ref_src=embed)

10.2166/wst.2024.363

---

## Microbial Systems Ecology Lab (@micsysecolab.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:5r53rhz7nxiurzw4mfcmfewf?ref_src=embed)

---

## Identifying Factors Associated With Variation in Telemental Health Delivery at Federally Qualified Health Centers.
 30.11.2024, _B Lombardi, C Sullivan, M Gaiser, LS Zerden, E Galloway, B Wright_


_Humans, Telemedicine, United States, COVID-19, Mental Health Services, SARS-CoV-2, Mental Health Teletherapy_
COVID-19 accelerated federally qualified health centers' use of telemental health. However, factors associated with telemental health service delivery remain unclear. We examined telemental health delivery by clinician type and mental health workforce composition across the U.S. to understand how staffing and other organizational characteristics are related to telemental health delivery at health centers.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:5r53rhz7nxiurzw4mfcmfewf/post/3lbu2xf2wps2o?ref_src=embed)

10.1177/21501319241303605

---

## 2024-11-26T12:45:51.587Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:5r53rhz7nxiurzw4mfcmfewf/post/3lbu2xf2wps2o?ref_src=embed)

---

## Large scale capsid-mediated mobilisation of bacterial genomic DNA in the gut microbiome

[Source](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.11.15.623857v3)

---

## Gut microbiota markers in early childhood are linked to farm living, pets in household and allergy.
 27.11.2024, _A Ljung, M Gio-Batta, B Hesselmar, H Imberg, H Rabe, FL Nowrouzian, S Johansen, CJ Törnhage, G Lindhagen, M Ceder, AC Lundell, A Rudin, AE Wold, I Adlerberth_


_Humans, Pets, Infant, Hypersensitivity, Farms, Animals, Female, Male, Child, Preschool, Gastrointestinal Microbiome, Feces, Child, Infant, Newborn, Family Characteristics, Biomarkers_
Children growing up on farms or with pets have a lower risk of developing allergy, which may be linked to their gut microbiota development during infancy.

[Source](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0313078)

10.1371/journal.pone.0313078

---

## Gut physiology and environment explain variations in human gut microbiome composition and metabolism 

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-024-01856-x)

---

## Gut physiology and environment explain variations in human gut microbiome composition and metabolism.
 28.11.2024, _N Procházková, MF Laursen, G La Barbera, E Tsekitsidi, MS Jørgensen, MA Rasmussen, J Raes, TR Licht, LO Dragsted, HM Roager_


_Humans, Gastrointestinal Microbiome, Feces, Adult, Hydrogen-Ion Concentration, Male, Female, Bacteria, Gastrointestinal Transit, Young Adult, Middle Aged, Diet, Fermentation, Gastrointestinal Tract, Methane, Healthy Volunteers_
The human gut microbiome is highly personal. However, the contribution of gut physiology and environment to variations in the gut microbiome remains understudied. Here we performed an observational trial using multi-omics to profile microbiome composition and metabolism in 61 healthy adults for 9 consecutive days. We assessed day-to-day changes in gut environmental factors and measured whole-gut and segmental intestinal transit time and pH using a wireless motility capsule in a subset of 50 individuals. We observed substantial daily fluctuations, with intra-individual variations in gut microbiome and metabolism associated with changes in stool moisture and faecal pH, and inter-individual variations accounted for by whole-gut and segmental transit times and pH. Metabolites derived from microbial carbohydrate fermentation correlated negatively with the gut passage time and pH, while proteolytic metabolites and breath methane showed a positive correlation. Finally, we identified associations between segmental transit time/pH and coffee-, diet-, host- and microbial-derived metabolites. Our work suggests that gut physiology and environment are key to understanding the individuality of the human gut microbial composition and metabolism.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:jyh2n3qwawf2uk6pyg4ulujg?ref_src=embed)

10.1038/s41564-024-01856-x

---

## Henrik M. Roager (@hroager.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:jyh2n3qwawf2uk6pyg4ulujg?ref_src=embed)

---

## Evaluating predictive values of umbilical cord arterial lactate for adverse newborn outcomes among term-births in northern Uganda: A cross sectional analytical study.
 30.11.2024, _E Ayebare, JK Tumwine, J Nankunda, A Hjelmstedt, W Jonas, G Ndeezi, N Orsini, C Hanson_


Birth asphyxia is one of the leading causes of death for neonates worldwide. Lack of an objective cost effective test to predict poor newborn outcomes at birth affects the ability to respond appropriately. This study determined predictive values of umbilical cord arterial lactate in relation to adverse neonatal outcomes.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:jyh2n3qwawf2uk6pyg4ulujg/post/3lbwe7op4gk26?ref_src=embed)

10.1002/ijgo.16037

---

## 2024-11-27T10:36:53.274Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:jyh2n3qwawf2uk6pyg4ulujg/post/3lbwe7op4gk26?ref_src=embed)

---

## Significant difference in gut microbiota <em>Bifidobacterium </em>species but not <em>Lactobacillus</em> species in colorectal cancer patients in comparison with healthy volunteers using quantitative real-time PCR

[Source](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0294053)

---

## Gut microbiome strain-sharing within isolated village social networks.
 20.11.2024, _F Beghini, J Pullman, M Alexander, SV Shridhar, D Prinster, A Singh, R Matute Juárez, EM Airoldi, IL Brito, NA Christakis_


When humans assemble into face-to-face social networks, they create an extended social environment that permits exposure to the microbiome of others, thereby shaping the composition and diversity of the microbiome at individual and population levels1-6. Here we use comprehensive social network mapping and detailed microbiome sequencing data in 1,787 adults within 18 isolated villages in Honduras7 to investigate the relationship between network structure and gut microbiome composition. Using both species-level and strain-level data, we show that microbial sharing occurs between many relationship types, notably including non-familial and non-household connections. Furthermore, strain-sharing extends to second-degree social connections, suggesting the relevance of a person's broader network. We also observe that socially central people are more microbially similar to the overall village than socially peripheral people. Among 301 people whose microbiome was re-measured 2 years later, we observe greater convergence in strain-sharing in connected versus otherwise similar unconnected co-villagers. Clusters of species and strains occur within clusters of people in village social networks, meaning that social networks provide the social niches within which microbiome biology and phenotypic impact are manifested.

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-08222-1)

10.1038/s41586-024-08222-1

---

## Coffee consumption is associated with intestinal<em> Lawsonibacter asaccharolyticus</em> abundance and prevalence across multiple cohort

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-024-01858-9)

---

## Inter-facility characterization of bacteria in seafood processing plants: Exploring potential reservoirs of spoilage organisms and the resistome.
 30.07.2024, _KF Corral-Jara, S Skírnisdóttir, S Knobloch, H Briem, JF Cobo-Díaz, N Carlino, P Bergsten, F Armanini, F Asnicar, F Pinto, A Alvarez-Ordóñez, N Segata, VÞ Marteinsson_


A study was conducted in fish processing facilities to investigate the microbial composition, microbial metabolic potential, and distribution of antibiotic resistance genes. Whole metagenomic sequencing was used to analyze microbial communities from different processing rooms, operators and fish products. Taxonomic analyses identified the genera Pseudomonas and Psychrobacter as the most prevalent bacteria. A Principal Component Analysis revealed a distinct separation between fish product and environmental samples, as well as differences between fish product samples from companies processing either Gadidae or Salmonidae fish. Some particular bacterial genera and species were associated with specific processing rooms and operators. Metabolic analysis of metagenome assembled genomes demonstrated variations in microbiota metabolic profiles of microbiota across rooms and fish products. The study also examined the presence of antibiotic-resistance genes in fish processing environments, contributing to the understanding of microbial dynamics, metabolic potential, and implications for fish spoilage.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:pcld5no3yjxnsues74juglri?ref_src=embed)

10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33866

---

## Segata Lab (@cibiocm.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:pcld5no3yjxnsues74juglri?ref_src=embed)

---

## The Effect of Digital Supervision of China Basic Medical Insurance on Out-of-pocket Expenditure: Evidence from Quasi-natural Experiment.
 30.11.2024, _C Wang, C Song, J Wu, Y Ning, S Wang_


_Humans, China, Insurance, Health, Health Expenditures, Female, Male, Middle Aged, Longitudinal Studies, Aged, Financing, Personal, Health Policy_
Scientific research has shown that the sustainability of public health insurance is crucial for governments to effectively manage the risks associated with populations aging. In response, the Chinese government has initiated efforts to ensure the long-term viability of its medical insurance funds. This study utilizes data from 24 484 respondents in the 2013, 2015, 2018, and 2020 waves of the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS), treating the digital supervision of medical insurance funds as a quasi-natural experiment. The study employs a difference-in-differences (DID) model to evaluate the policy effects and uses heterogeneity analysis to explore variations in impact. The objective is to assess the effectiveness of digital supervision and understand how it achieves its policy goals. The findings indicate that digital supervision of medical insurance funds has a significant positive impact on residents' out-of-pocket medical expenditure. Heterogeneity analysis reveals that the policy's effect is particularly strong in urban samples, especially among younger and elderly urban residents, while showing no significant impact on rural populations. This suggests that the policy has a greater influence on groups with higher moral hazard. By implementing digital supervision of medical insurance funds, the Chinese government has ensured the sustainability of these funds, laying a foundation for mitigating the risks associated with population aging. Additionally, the policy has contributed to promoting healthcare equity and reducing the waste of medical resources.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:pcld5no3yjxnsues74juglri/post/3lb7soxsvrs2k?ref_src=embed)

10.1177/00469580241301528

---

## 2024-11-18T11:24:44.554Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:pcld5no3yjxnsues74juglri/post/3lb7soxsvrs2k?ref_src=embed)

---

## Insights into respiratory microbiome composition and systemic inflammatory biomarkers of bronchiectasis patients.
 13.11.2024, _A Konovalovas, J Armalytė, L Klimkaitė, T Liveikis, B Jonaitytė, E Danila, D Bironaitė, D Mieliauskaitė, E Bagdonas, R Aldonytė_


The human microbiomes, including the ones present in the respiratory tract, are described and characterized in an increasing number of studies. However, the composition and the impact of the healthy and/or impaired microbiome on pulmonary health and its interaction with the host tissues remain enigmatic. In chronic airway diseases, bronchiectasis stands out as a progressive condition characterized by microbial colonization and infection. In this study, we aimed to investigate the microbiome of the lower airways and lungs of bronchiectasis patients together with their serum cytokine and chemokine content, and gain novel insights into the pathogenesis of bronchiectasis. The microbiome of 47 patients was analyzed by sequencing of full-length 16S rRNA gene using amplicon sequencing Oxford Nanopore technologies. Their serum inflammatory mediators content was quantified in parallel. Several divergently composed microbiome groups were identified and characterized, the majority of patients displayed one dominant bacterial species, whereas others had a more diverse microbiome. The analysis of systemic immune biomarkers revealed two distinct inflammatory response groups, i.e., low and high response groups, each associated with a specific array of clinical symptoms, microbial composition, and diversity. Moreover, we have identified some microbiome compositions associated with high inflammatory response, i.e., high levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, whereas other microbiomes were in correlation with low inflammatory responses. Although bronchiectasis pathogenetic mechanisms remain to be elucidated, it is clear that addressing microbiome composition in the airways is a valuable resource not only for diagnosis but also for personalized disease management.

[Source](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/spectrum.04144-23)

10.1128/spectrum.04144-23

---

## Urinary biochemical ecology reveals microbiome-metabolite interactions and metabolic markers of recurrent urinary tract infection.
 01.11.2024, _ML Neugent, NV Hulyalkar, D Ghosh, PE Zimmern, V Shulaev, NJ De Nisco_


Recurrent urinary tract infections (rUTIs) are a major clinical challenge in postmenopausal women and their increasing prevalence underscores the need to define interactions between the host and the urinary microbiome that may underlie rUTI susceptibility. A body of work has identified the taxonomic profile of the female urinary microbiome associate with aging, menopause, and urinay disease. However, how this microbial community engages with the host niche, including the local biochemical environment of the urogenital tract, in health and disease is yet to be fully defined. This study directly assesses differences in the biochemical environment of the urine, or biochemical ecology, associated with recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI) and defines a microbe-metabolite association network of the female urinary microbiome. By integrating metagenomic and metabolomic data collected from a controlled cohort of women with rUTI, we find that distinct metabolites, such as methionine sulfoxide (Met-SO) and trimethylamine oxide (TMAO), are associated with differences in urinary microbiome diversity. We observe associations between microbial and biochemical beta diversity and unique metabolic networks of uropathogenic Escherichia coli and uroprotective Lactobacillus species, highlighting potential metabolite-driven ecological shifts that may influence UTI susceptibility. We identify a urinary lipid signature of active rUTI that can accurately distinguish (AUC = 0.987) cases controls. Finally, using time-to-relapse data we identify deoxycholic acid (DCA) as a new prognostic indicator for rUTI recurrence. Together these findings suggest that systemic metabolic processes may influence susceptibility, opening new avenues for therapeutic intervention and the development of more accurate diagnostic and prognostic to improve patient outcomes.

[Source](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.10.22.619727v1)

10.1101/2024.10.22.619727

---

## Distinct maternofetal immune signatures delineate preterm birth onset following urinary tract infection.
 27.11.2024, _S Ottinger, AB Larson, V Mercado-Evans, H Branthoover, JJ Zulk, C Serchejian, ME Mejia, ZA Hameed, R Walde, RC Fleck, AE Shea, KA Patras_


Preterm birth is the leading cause of infant mortality resulting in over one million neonatal deaths annually. Maternal urinary tract infection (UTI) during pregnancy increases risk for preterm birth; however, biological processes mediating UTI-associated preterm birth are not well-described. We established a murine maternal UTI model in which challenge with uropathogenic E. coli resulted in preterm birth in about half of dams. Dams experiencing preterm birth displayed excessive bladder inflammation and altered uteroplacental T cell polarization compared to non-laboring infected dams, with no differences in bacterial burdens. Additional factors associated with preterm birth included higher proportions of male fetuses and lower maternal serum IL-10. Furthermore, exogenous maternal IL-10 treatment absolved UTI-associated preterm birth but contributed to fetal growth restriction in this model. Using urine samples from a cohort of human pregnancies with or without UTI, we correlated urinary cytokines with birth outcomes and urine culture status. These analyses yielded a non-invasive, highly predictive three-model system for evaluating preterm birth risk implicating cytokines IL-10, IL-15, IL-1β, and IL-1RA. Our unique bimodal murine model coupled with patient samples provides a platform to investigate immunological and microbial factors governing UTI-associated preterm birth, revealing novel therapeutic opportunities to predict or prevent preterm birth.

[Source](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.10.22.619711v1)

10.1101/2024.10.22.619711

---

## Glucose alters the evolutionary response to gentamicin in uropathogenic <em>Escherichia coli</em>

[Source](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.11.26.625364v1)

---

## Longitudinal genomic surveillance of a UK intensive care unit shows a lack of patient colonisation by multi-drug-resistant Gram-negative bacterial pathogens.
 06.11.2024, _AE Snaith, RA Moran, RJ Hall, A Casey, L Ratcliffe, W van Schaik, T Whitehouse, A McNally_


_Humans, Intensive Care Units, Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial, United Kingdom, COVID-19, Escherichia coli, Whole Genome Sequencing, SARS-CoV-2, Cross Infection, Genome, Bacterial, Anti-Bacterial Agents, Gram-Negative Bacteria, Genomics_
Vulnerable patients in an intensive care unit (ICU) setting are at high risk of infection from bacteria including gut-colonising Escherichia coli and Klebsiella species. Complex ICU procedures often depend on successful antimicrobial treatment, underscoring the importance of understanding the extent of patient colonisation by multi-drug-resistant organisms (MDROs) in large UK ICUs. Previous work on ICUs globally uncovered high rates of colonisation by transmission of MDROs, but the situation in UK ICUs is less understood. Here, we investigated the diversity and antibiotic resistance gene (ARG) carriage of bacteria present in one of the largest UK ICUs at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham (QEHB), focusing primarily on E. coli as both a widespread commensal and a globally disseminated multi-drug-resistant pathogen. Samples were taken during highly restrictive coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) control measures from May to December 2021. Whole-genome and metagenomic sequencing were used to detect and report strain-level colonisation of patients, focusing on E. coli sequence types (STs), their colonisation dynamics and antimicrobial resistance gene carriage. We found a lack of multi-drug resistance (MDR) in the QEHB. Only one carbapenemase-producing organism was isolated, a Citrobacter carrying bla KPC-2. There was no evidence supporting the spread of this strain, and there was little evidence overall of nosocomial acquisition or circulation of colonising E. coli. Whilst 22 different E. coli STs were identified, only 1 strain of the pandemic ST131 lineage was isolated. This ST131 strain was non-MDR and was found to be a clade A strain, associated with low levels of antibiotic resistance. Overall, the QEHB ICU had very low levels of pandemic or MDR strains, a result that may be influenced in part by the strict COVID-19 control measures in place at the time. Employing some of these infection prevention and control measures where reasonable in all ICUs might therefore assist in maintaining low levels of nosocomial MDR.

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:vf4j77c7bvnyn7lmeeu3byyo?ref_src=embed)

10.1099/mgen.0.001314

---

## Rebecca J Hall (@drrebeccajhall.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:vf4j77c7bvnyn7lmeeu3byyo?ref_src=embed)

---

## Efficacy of chitosan powder in reducing vaginal bleeding following a loop electrosurgical excision procedure: A randomized control trial.
 30.11.2024, _K Güngördük, HC Ünver, BŞ Uyar, BN Ergü, V Gülseren, İA Özdemir_


To evaluate the efficacy of topical chitosan powder in reducing postoperative vaginal bleeding following a loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP).

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:vf4j77c7bvnyn7lmeeu3byyo/post/3lbw44njddk2q?ref_src=embed)

10.1002/ijgo.16055

---

## 2024-11-27T08:11:55.853Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:vf4j77c7bvnyn7lmeeu3byyo/post/3lbw44njddk2q?ref_src=embed)

---

## Ileal microbial microbiome and its secondary bile acids modulate susceptibility to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in dairy goats.
 25.11.2024, _Y Wang, X Chen, SA Huws, G Xu, J Li, J Ren, J Xu, LL Guan, J Yao, S Wu_


_Animals, Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease, Goats, Bile Acids and Salts, Gastrointestinal Microbiome, Ileum, Liver, Mice, Bacteria, Disease Susceptibility, Goat Diseases, Disease Models, Animal, Female_
Liver damage from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) presents a significant challenge to the health and productivity of ruminants. However, the regulatory mechanisms behind variations in NASH susceptibility remain unclear. The gut‒liver axis, particularly the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids (BAs), plays a crucial role in regulating the liver diseases. Since the ileum is the primary site for BAs reabsorption and return to the liver, we analysed the ileal metagenome and metabolome, liver and serum metabolome, and liver single-nuclei transcriptome of NASH-resistant and susceptible goats together with a mice validation model to explore how ileal microbial BAs metabolism affects liver metabolism and immunity, uncovering the key mechanisms behind varied NASH pathogenesis in dairy goats.

[Source](https://microbiomejournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40168-024-01964-0)

10.1186/s40168-024-01964-0

---

## Effects of prebiotic and multispecies probiotic supplementation on the gut microbiota, immune function, and growth performance of weaned piglets.
 23.11.2024, _SOB Huaman, FA de Souza, MA Bonato, CP Dias, MA Callegari, A Oba, RH de Carvalho, CA da Silva_


_Animals, Probiotics, Swine, Prebiotics, Gastrointestinal Microbiome, Weaning, Dietary Supplements, Animal Feed, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cytokines_
In this study, we evaluated the impact of yeast cell wall prebiotics and multispecies probiotics on the gut microbiota, immune response, and growth performance of weaned piglets, as alternatives to antibiotics as growth promoters (AGPs). A randomized complete block design was employed, involving 160 piglets divided into four treatment groups during the nursery phase. The treatments applied throughout the experimental period were as follows: CONT+ = basal diet with halquinol (AGP); YCW = basal diet with yeast cell wall (cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast); SIM+ = basal diet with yeast cell wall + multispecies probiotic (Bacillus subtilis (2.0 x 109 CFU/g), Bacillus coagulans (5.0 x 108 CFU/g), Clostridium butyricum (5.0 x 107 CFU/g), and Bacillus licheniformis (2.0 x 109 CFU/g)); SIM- = basal diet with yeast cell wall + multispecies probiotic (half dose). The parameters assessed included daily feed intake, weight gain, feed conversion ratio (FCR), diarrhea score, serum cytokine levels, and chemokine concentrations, as well as microbiota analysis. During the 21 to 63-day study period, only FCR differed significantly (p = 0.0076). CONT+ and PREB had superior FCRs of 1.543 and 1.585, while SIM- had the least favorable FCR at 1.654. At 35 days, IL-10 levels were greater in the SIM- group, showing a 271.25% increase over those in the other groups. By 49 days, the IL-8 concentration was lower in the PREB group than in the CONT+ group, with a reduction of 247%, while the IL-8 concentrations in the SIM+ and SIM- groups were not significantly different from those in the other groups. The Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes (F/B) ratio in the CONT+ group was lower than that in the PREB, SIM+, and SIM- treatment groups. The Lactobacillaceae family was more abundant in the SIM+ treatment, followed by the SIM- and PREB treatments. The CONT+ treatment had the lowest abundance. The abundance of the genus Lactobacillus differed between the CONT+ group and the PREB, SIM+, and SIM- treatment groups. Prebiotics, used either alone or combined with probiotics, serve as effective substitutes for AGPs, boosting piglets' health and performance throughout the nursery phase.

[Source](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0313475)

10.1371/journal.pone.0313475

---

## Western diet promotes endometriotic lesion growth in mice and induces depletion of <em>Akkermansia muciniphila</em> in intestinal microbiota 

[Source](https://bmcmedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12916-024-03738-9)

---

## <em>In vitro </em>validation of colon delivery of vitamin B2 through a food grade multi-unit particle system

[Source](https://brill.com/view/journals/bm/aop/article-10.1163-18762891-bja00045/article-10.1163-18762891-bja00045.xml)

---

## Development of a novel complex inflammatory bowel disease mouse model: Reproducing human inflammatory bowel disease etiologies in mice

[Source](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0311310)

---

## Applications of marine microbial community models in the nature-based economy 

[Source](https://journals.plos.org/sustainabilitytransformation/article?id=10.1371/journal.pstr.0000145)

---

## Soil microbiomes show consistent and predictable responses to extreme events

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-08185-3)

---

## A metagenome-assembled genome inventory for children reveals early-life gut bacteriome and virome dynamics

[Source](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1931312824004025?via%3Dihub)

---

## Lefser: Implementation of metagenomic biomarker discovery tool, LEfSe, in R

[Source](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/advance-article/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btae707/7908399?searchresult=1)

---

## Evaluation of DNA extraction kits for long-read shotgun metagenomics using Oxford Nanopore sequencing for rapid taxonomic and antimicrobial resistance detection

[Source](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-024-80660-3)

---

## Svetlana Ugarcina Perovic (@svetlanaup.bsky.social)

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:hffa64ymkjg2wqddo4q3jjrs?ref_src=embed)

---

## 2024-11-21T21:55:47.051Z

[Source](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:hffa64ymkjg2wqddo4q3jjrs/post/3lbihe4otjs2l?ref_src=embed)

---

